[Music]
with an empty stomach
jars try spot on some soft food very
good there evening I came not going to
give him the full amount would be good
to get some bottle into them as well I
scanned a little bit overzealous bit to
push it
sure enough spot soon gets his strength
back and it's not long before he perks
up and begins to take on the family dogs
Cesar and Ruby
[Music]
Ceaser's happy guess these tails Waggin
you did these hole trying to get into
plaything oh here we go
you do it again now good boy Caesar good
boy
once things are all tidied up jars takes
time to reflect on the impact the Cubs
are having on conservation we're doing
exactly what I set out to achieve in
that we are raising significant funds
that we're going to put towards what I
feel is you know the most successful and
appropriate tiger conservation program
for Sumatran tigers these Cubs are
raising more money per day than it costs
to run that program every day so every
day that these guys are on display we
are saving the Samoan tiger in Corinne
Theresa black National Park with the
help of cari and son Kynan he's got a
new plan to help raise money to save the
wild Sumatran tigers tiger cub paw
prints really bad enough are you ready
Connor to help so these are gonna be the
little canvases that we get their little
paws on I'm thinking $50 for every
single last thing we'll go back into
conservation
[Music]
second-born stripe is as vocal as ever
but his usual spot takes it all in his
stride going in is he asleep
John I'm able she's born
[Music]
yeah place the waters nice and moist oh
okay oh yes
[Music]
okay before 40 paw prints are sold
that'll be another $2,000 towards
protecting tigers in the wild living
alongside tigers for as long as I have
means you notice the smallest detail I
have a theory that when a tiger licks
its paws
it's preparing to hunt this could be a
good sign it's been many days now but I
still haven't seen began II make a kill
with no Tigers to hunt them Sir riskiest
deer herds have increased in size but
bigger herds mean more eyes to watch out
for hunting Tigers
and that makes them more difficult to
catch
[Music]
yet another problem for began II
I'm desperate to see her cut something
so I can be sure she's getting enough to
eat these are young deer and they've
never seen a tiger they might be easier
to catch
she's perfectly placed
[Music]
has she got one yes at last I know for
sure she is feeding it's only a small
meal but it gives me great confidence
for the future of Pagani and rajole my
gun is ready to mate again
she spent all morning calling for a job
[Music]
but so far there's no reply when he
doesn't appear for three days we all
joined at the sir
picking up his trail following his
footprints
[Music]
we're all worried
and then we find him dead
[Music]
not to killed by poachers but poisoned
by a villager protecting his cattle but
by golly doesn't know her mate is dead
she's still searching for him
[Music]
she can smell him but he's gone
she cries for three days after his death
[Music]
we are both heartbroken it's at 4
o'clock afternoon and Caymans been in
labor on and off for the last five hours
we've just finished a period where
there's a couple of hours of not really
much activity she's just getting to the
point now where she's having some pretty
regular and strong contractions Caitlin
is entering the advanced stages of
labour
[Music]
puppy curry and when she has a
contraction
time to emit this is the amniotic sac
which means there's a cub on the way
cover the sack just burst around it
and there we can see your face
[Music]
here we go
[Applause]
[Music]
the sensation of Caitlyn's licking
should trigger the Cubs lungs to start
working its gasp three times but it's
not breathing properly in two minutes
and although the Cubs made some weak
attempts it still hasn't started
breathing properly yeah
these gasps its gasping it's not it's
not breathing
my ties bringing well as to three
breasts for good girl did say well did
very well
every guy so the cup just made its
first-ever noise a little squeal out to
my mum or my mum looked surprised if
anything the beautiful ten-minute
overcome that's incredible isn't it
man my heart was in my mouth there's a
good girl
for first time lunch there doing an
amazing job and it's really hard just to
sit back here and let her get on with it
I just don't have contractions in
preparation for the second one to arrive
well done good girl doing so well
good girl Wow good girl
oh this one's come here kicking and
screaming good girl it's not absolutely
amazing absolutely amazing
it's two males and Kaitlyn's allowing
Giles to share in the moment ones up and
about as the Cubs have become bolder at
home Charles thinks it's time for spot
and stripe to increase their
socialization with the adult Tigers back
at the zoo at the Maine Tiger compound
Charles and his team are full-time
carers for ten adult tigers and spottin
stripe have been gradually exposed to
them seeing the adult Tigers through the
glass is one thing but their next big
milestone is to socialize and meet one
of the adults in the open air
there's going to be lots and lots of
interesting smells in here with all the
other Tigers you know like the big cars
come through here on a regular basis and
it's much much more of a sensory
stimulation for them in here in terms of
the smell than just being around the
front of the glass like the tiger the
big Tigers never go around that side say
get used to walking around here boys in
just over a month the Cubs will be too
big to live at home and they need to be
accepted by the adults for them to live
here full-time he's a little bit nervous
as you would expect you can see he's
smelling all the smells around there's
lots of smells of big predators are the
Tigers around so you gotta be a little
bit cautious naturally in the wild an
unrelated tiger could easily injure the
Cubs I wish I did whiting and Giles
hopes Maneki won't display any
threatening behaviors so this is Maneki
this is the very very first time that
Maneki seen any Cubs whatsoever
Tigers communicate using a range of
vocalizations and the most common
non-threatening sound they make is
called a chuff Japanese reassuring so
they're talking at her they're chuffing
at each other so it's a reassuring type
of noise but it's also a way of greeting
say the she'll speaks your language like
Ruby Tigers are one of the few cats in
the world to communicate in this way
these guys are very inquisitive so the
facial expression where their ears is
exactly that now he's being a bit
submissive for the fact that he's put it
is is slightly back he's getting down
low so that's just being a little bit
unsure if you like where it's Maneki you
can see how relaxed she is she's sat
there she's fairly happy so stripe his
um it's getting a little bit close he's
being cautious in the way in which
approaches good boy you're brave yeah
look at his face
he's very very cautious like he wants to
go up a bit closer but he's also a
little nervous but that's to be expected
like look at the size of her in
comparison to him and she's reacting too
little she doesn't want to be surprised
the Cubs have won over Maneki and Giles
is relieved for a very first encounter
you couldn't have asked for it to go any
better or any smoother you know no one's
been aggressive no one showing over
interest or too much interest say and
the Cubs have taken really well
[Music]
[Applause]